# SQL Joins

SQL Joins are used to combine rows from two or more tables based on a related column between them. Here are the different types of JOINs along with examples:

## INNER JOIN:

Returns rows when there is at least one match in both tables.

**Syntax:**

```sql
 SELECT columns FROM table1
 INNER JOIN table2 ON table1.column = table2.column;
```

Example:

```sql
SELECT
    Orders.OrderID,
    Customers.CustomerName
FROM Orders
INNER JOIN Customers
ON Orders.CustomerID = Customers.CustomerID;
```

In this example, only the orders that have a matching customer in the Customers table will be returned.

## LEFT JOIN (or LEFT OUTER JOIN):

Returns all rows from the left table (table1), and the matched rows from the right table (table2). If there's no match, NULL values are returned.

**Syntax:**

```sql
SELECT columns
FROM table1
LEFT JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;
```

Example:

```sql
SELECT Customers.CustomerName, Orders.OrderID
FROM Customers
LEFT JOIN Orders ON Customers.CustomerID = Orders.CustomerID;
```

In this example, all customers will be returned, and their orders will be included if they have any. If a customer has no orders, NULL values will be shown in the OrderID column.

## RIGHT JOIN (or RIGHT OUTER JOIN):

Returns all rows from the right table (table2), and the matched rows from the left table (table1). If there's no match, NULL values are returned.

**Syntax:**

```sql
SELECT columns
FROM table1
RIGHT JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;
```

Example:

```sql
SELECT
    Orders.OrderID,
    Customers.CustomerName
FROM Orders
RIGHT JOIN Customers
ON Orders.CustomerID = Customers.CustomerID;
```

In this example, all orders will be returned, and the corresponding customer names will be included if available. If an order has no matching customer, NULL values will be shown in the CustomerName column.

## FULL JOIN (or FULL OUTER JOIN):

Returns all rows from both tables, and NULL values are used to fill in the columns where there is no match.

**Syntax:**

```sql
SELECT columns
FROM table1
FULL JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;
```

Example:

```sql
SELECT Customers.CustomerName, Orders.OrderID
FROM Customers
FULL JOIN Orders ON Customers.CustomerID = Orders.CustomerID;
```

In this example, all customers and all orders will be returned. If there's a match, the corresponding values will be shown. Otherwise, NULL values will be displayed where there's no match.

These examples demonstrate how each type of JOIN works and how they can be used to combine data from multiple tables based on their relationships.
